---
title: "A method of mapping entity linking to word sense disambiguation"
collection: talks
type: "IUST, DM Lab."
permalink: /research/2018_WSD
venue: "Dr. Minaie, Banafsheh Karimian"
date: 2018-01-01
location: ""
---

Word sense disambiguation، which maps each word to a Synset of a Wordnet، is one important problem in the field of text knowledge extraction. This problem is related to the problem of Entity linking، which links words to corresponding entities of a knowledge graph. In Persian، these two problems can be solved using Persian Wordnet (Farsnet) and Persian knowledge graph (FarsBase). Although there exists a uniform combination of these two problems for English language، there are no such work for Persian language. The main aim of this research is to represent an algorithm for mapping Farsnet to Farsbase. First of all، our proposed method applies a Persian entity linker on a corpus and then، uses a word sense disambiguation algorithm similar to the entity linker for the same corpus. Then، we check the result of the entity linker and the word sense disambiguation algorithm for similarities، in order to map linked entities to word senses (Synsets of FarsNet). At the end، we count the number of occurrence of each mapped pairs and look for an appropriate threshold for accepting a mapped pair. The final mapping is evaluated using a dataset of 767 manually mapped entity-Synset pairs. The result had a precision and recall of 70 and 30 presents and contains 5000 mapped pairs. Visit [this](https://) repository to access the relevant codes. You can also access to the full Persian document from [here](https://banafshehkarimian.github.io/files/bsthesis.pdf).